Project: Spotify Personalized Recommendations Scraper Extension
Purpose

Create a browser extension (Chrome-first, Firefox optional) that extracts the user’s Spotify Web Player personalized recommendations and outputs structured JSON. Data should be read from the DOM directly, not via API authentication. The JSON can be downloaded or POSTed to a user-defined endpoint.

The extension must work only when the user is actively logged into the Spotify Web Player. All scraping is client-side.

1. Extension Summary

A browser extension that scans the Spotify Web Player UI for recommended items such as:

“Made For You”

“Discover Weekly” (if visible)

“Recommended Songs/Albums/Artists” sections

Homepage recommendation shelves

Extract relevant metadata, assemble final JSON, make it downloadable or sendable to a given URL.

2. Browser Targets
Primary:

Google Chrome (Manifest V3)

Secondary:

Firefox (Manifest V3 compatibility or fallback to V2)

3. Required Files

manifest.json

Content script(s)

Background service worker

Popup UI

Optional CSS

4. Permissions
"permissions": [
    "activeTab",
    "storage",
    "scripting"
],
"host_permissions": [
    "https://open.spotify.com/*",
    "*://*/*"
]

5. Data to Extract

From each recommendation card visible in Web Player:

title (track, playlist, album, or artist name)

type (track, album, playlist, artist)

id extracted from the URL

url (full Spotify URL)

artists array (if applicable)

thumbnailUrl (image source)

section (e.g., “Made For You”, “Recommended for Today”, “For Fans Of…”)

description or subtitle when available

Note: Spotify’s DOM varies by region and account type; selectors must be modular and easily updated.

6. Output JSON Structure
{
  "timestamp": "ISO-8601 Datetime",
  "source": "open.spotify.com",
  "recommendations": [
    {
      "title": "",
      "type": "",
      "id": "",
      "url": "",
      "artists": [""],
      "thumbnailUrl": "",
      "section": "",
      "description": ""
    }
  ]
}

7. Content Script Behavior

Runs on https://open.spotify.com/*

Identifies major “shelves” of recommendations on the homepage using DOM queries

Extracts each card’s metadata

Sends structured objects to the background worker via messaging

Scraping zones:

Homepage personalized shelves

“Browse” sections showing recommendations

“Made For You” hub (if user navigates there)

Extension should avoid scanning irrelevant UI elements (player controls, sidebars, ads).

8. Popup UI Behavior

UI should contain:

Button: “Scrape Recommendations”

Optional preview pane (scrollable)

Button: “Download JSON”

Input: “POST URL (optional)”

Toggle: “Auto-send after scrape”

Status indicator showing last scrape result or any POST errors

9. Background Worker Behavior

Receives data from content script

Normalizes values and builds final JSON

Saves user settings in chrome.storage.sync

Handles POST when enabled

POST requirements

Method: POST

Header: Content-Type: application/json

Body: JSON object

On failure, popup should report the error clearly.

10. Security & Privacy

No login, token, or cookie extraction

Only reads what is visually present on Spotify’s web player

No data stored except optional POST URL and toggle

User must explicitly initiate scraping unless auto-toggle is enabled

11. Deliverables

Full extension source code

Packaged ZIP ready for Chrome Web Store

Setup documentation including:

Installation

How to scrape

How to configure POST endpoint

What is and isn’t extractable

12. Maintenance Notes

Spotify frequently updates frontend modules. All DOM selectors must be separated into a config file for easy patching.
